README.md, before:

# CanonicalTypes
A C# canonical types library.

Requires Microsoft's [Immutable Collections](http://www.nuget.org/packages/System.Collections.Immutable).

This is my own private alternative to JSON. It is inspired by Scheme S-expressions. It supports a wide variety of data
types.

It is currently a work in progress, and so is the documentation below.

# Data Types

At runtime, all data types descend from the ``Datum`` class.

All the data types (except for ``MutableBoxDatum``) are immutable, hashable, and comparable, which means they may be
used as items in sets, or keys in dictionaries. This includes sets and dictionaries themselves. (A ``MutableBoxDatum``
has a mutable *content* part and an immutable *identity.* Only the identity is used for hashing and comparison.)

All the data types can be serialized as binary and deserialized from binary. (The deserialization code is currently
not secure, which means you should only deserialize trusted byte streams.) With the exception of *uninterned symbols*
and mutable boxes, the deserialized value will be equal to the serialized one.

Here are the data types supported:

## Null

The null datum is written as ``#nil``.

## Boolean

The boolean data are written as ``#t`` for true, or ``#f`` for false.

## Character

Right now a character is only 16 bits, which means that some Unicode code points have to be encoded with surrogate
pairs. The character data type is able to represent only half of a surrogate pair.

There are three ways to write characters.

* A literal character. For example, ``C`` can be written as ``#\C``.

* A named character, such as ``#\newline`` or ``#\space``. Character names are case-sensitive. The named characters
are ``#\bel``, ``#\backspace``, ``#\tab``, ``#\newline``, ``#\vt``, ``#\page``, ``#\return``, and ``#\space``.

* A hex character. For example, the escape character would be ``#\x1B``, and the non-breaking zero-width space (which
is used by Unicode as a byte-order mark) would be ``#\xFEFF``. Hex digits are case-insensitive.

## String

A string is written between double quotes.

* ``""`` is the empty string.

* All the C-style escapes are supported, for example ``\t`` for tab and ``\n`` for newline. So ``"\t"`` is a string
consisting of a single tab character.

* You can escape a quote with ``\"`` or a backslash with ``\\``.

* Hexadecimal escapes, such as ``\x1B`` for the escape character, are supported, but must use exactly two hex
digits. Unicode escapes such as ``\uFEFF`` are supported, but must use exactly four hex digits.

* You can escape a newline to omit it from the string and continue the string on the next line.

## Symbol

A symbol is usually a bare word such as ``symbol``. Symbols are case-sensitive.

Bare words are limited in what characters they may contain, but a symbol may contain any characters. Thus, it is also
possible to write a "quoted symbol" between pipe characters, such as ``|has two spaces|``.

* ``||`` is the empty symbol, the symbol whose name is the empty string.

* All the C-style escapes are supported, as with strings.

* You cannot escape a quote &mdash; there is no need to &mdash; but you can escape a pipe with ``\|`` or a backslash
with ``\\``.

* Hexadecimal and Unicode escapes are supported, as with strings.

* You can escape a newline just like in a string.

The data model also supports *uninterned symbols.* When an uninterned symbol is generated, it is guaranteed to be
distinct from any other symbol (interned or uninterned). Once generated, an uninterned symbol can be *used* any number
of times, and is always recognized as being equal to itself.

An uninterned symbol does not have a printed representation, but it can be serialized in binary. When a ``Datum`` is
serialized to binary, the number of distinct uninterned symbols is counted, and when the ``Datum`` is deserialized,
the same number of new uninterned symbols is generated. The new symbols correspond one-for-one with the old ones.

## Integer

Integers are arbitrary-precision. Right now only base 10 is supported. Examples of integers include ``-100``, ``0``,
and ``64``.

## Rational

Rational numbers are supported. Examples include ``-1/2`` and ``1/3``. Upon being read, a rational number is converted
to lowest terms.

## Floating-Point

Floating-point numbers are supported. A floating-point number must distinguish itself from an integer by having a
decimal point or an ``E`` (or an ``e``), or both. Examples of floating-point numbers include ``-1.23`` and
``6.02e23``.

The data model supports infinite and NaN values, but there is currently no way to write them (except in binary).

## GUID

Globally-unique identifiers (GUIDs) are supported as a distinct data type. A GUID must have 32 hex digits, with
hyphens in particular places. A GUID always starts with ``#g{`` and ends with ``}``. An example of a GUID is
``#g{01234567-89AB-CDEF-0123-456789ABCDEF}``. The hex digits are case-insensitive.

## Byte Array

A byte array is written as ``#y(``, followed by a sequence of hexadecimal bytes, followed by ``)``. Each hexadecimal
byte must consist of exactly two hex digits. Hex digits are case-insensitive. Whitespace is allowed (but not required)
between bytes.

As a convenience, it is also possible to put bytes in square brackets; this causes the order of the bytes in the
brackets to be reversed, and is useful when embedding little-endian multi-byte integers in the byte array. Square
brackets may *not* be nested.

An example of a byte array is ``#y(F4 2C 53 0f [3000])``. This is equivalent to ``#y([0F53 2CF4] 00 30)``.

## Atomic vs. Compound Types

All the above are *atomic* data types, meaning that they do not contain unrestricted ``Datum`` values as elements. The
*compound* types include lists, sets, and dictionaries, and they *do* allow unrestricted ``Datum`` values as
elements. Compound types can include other compound types as elements.

Unlike Common Lisp, the empty list, the empty set, and the empty dictionary are all considered distinct from ``#nil``,
from the symbol ``nil``, and from each other.

## List

A list is written as ``(``, followed by zero or more ``Datum`` values, followed by ``)``.

A list is considered to be a sequence of zero or more elements. "Dotted lists" in the style of Lisp and Scheme are not
supported. These lists might be more analogous to the *vectors* in Lisp or Scheme.

## Set

A set is written as ``#s{``, followed by zero or more ``Datum`` values, followed by ``}``.

Duplicate items in a set are ignored. The data model does not allow them.

## Dictionary

A dictionary is written as ``{``, followed by zero or more key-value pairs, followed by ``}``. A key-value pair is a
``Datum`` key, followed by ``=>``, followed by a ``Datum`` value, followed by ``,``. The trailing comma may be omitted
from the last key-value pair.

The data model allows only one value per key. If a duplicate key is found when parsing input, the behavior is
implementation-defined, but must be either that one of the duplicate key-value pairs is chosen arbitrarily for
inclusion in the dictionary and the others are ignored, or that an error is signaled.

## Mutable Box

A mutable box must have either a *key* or a *value*, and may have both. The key is an integer which fits in 32
bits. Mutable boxes with the same key are considered the same. The value is any ``Datum`` and may include other
mutable boxes, or the same mutable box. Every mutable box must be assigned a value exactly once.

A mutable box with a key and a value is written as ``#b[`` (key) ``]=`` (value). A mutable box with only a value is
written as ``#b=`` (value).  A mutable box with only a key is written as ``#b[`` (key) ``]``.

As with uninterned symbols, when mutable boxes are deserialized, new mutable boxes with new identities are created,
but they match one-for-one with the old mutable boxes.

Commit message:

Add support for comments and change dictionary

README.md, after:

# CanonicalTypes
A C# canonical types library.

Requires Microsoft's [Immutable Collections](http://www.nuget.org/packages/System.Collections.Immutable).

This is my own private alternative to JSON. It is inspired by Scheme S-expressions. It supports a wide variety of data
types.

It is currently a work in progress, and so is the documentation below.

(Note: **Breaking Changes** have occurred recently, so I tagged version &ldquo;1.0&rdquo; before the changes. This
documentation covers the current version. To get the documentation for the original version, just check out the
&ldquo;1.0&rdquo; tag.)

# Data Types

At runtime, all data types descend from the ``Datum`` class.

All the data types (except for ``MutableBoxDatum``) are immutable, hashable, and comparable, which means they may be
used as items in sets, or keys in dictionaries. This includes sets and dictionaries themselves. (A ``MutableBoxDatum``
has a mutable *content* part and an immutable *identity.* Only the identity is used for hashing and comparison.)

All the data types can be serialized as binary and deserialized from binary. (The deserialization code is currently
not secure, which means you should only deserialize trusted byte streams.) With the exception of *uninterned symbols*
and mutable boxes, the deserialized value will be equal to the serialized one.

Also, they can be serialized and deserialized as text.

Here are the data types supported:

## Null

The null datum is written as ``#nil``.

## Boolean

The boolean data are written as ``#t`` for true, or ``#f`` for false.

## Character

Right now a character is only 16 bits, which means that some Unicode code points have to be encoded with surrogate
pairs. The character data type is able to represent only half of a surrogate pair.

There are three ways to write characters.

* A literal character. For example, ``C`` can be written as ``#\C``.

* A named character, such as ``#\newline`` or ``#\space``. Character names are case-sensitive. The named characters
are ``#\bel``, ``#\backspace``, ``#\tab``, ``#\newline``, ``#\vt``, ``#\page``, ``#\return``, and ``#\space``.

* A hex character. For example, the escape character would be ``#\x1B``, and the non-breaking zero-width space (which
is used by Unicode as a byte-order mark) would be ``#\xFEFF``. Hex digits are case-insensitive.

## String

A string is written between double quotes.

* ``""`` is the empty string.

* All the C-style escapes are supported, for example ``\t`` for tab and ``\n`` for newline. So ``"\t"`` is a string
consisting of a single tab character.

* You can escape a quote with ``\"`` or a backslash with ``\\``.

* Hexadecimal escapes, such as ``\x1B`` for the escape character, are supported, but must use exactly two hex
digits. Unicode escapes such as ``\uFEFF`` are supported, but must use exactly four hex digits.

* You can escape a newline to omit it from the string and continue the string on the next line.

## Symbol

A symbol is usually a bare word such as ``symbol``. Symbols are case-sensitive.

Bare words are limited in what characters they may contain, but a symbol may contain any characters. Thus, it is also
possible to write a "quoted symbol" between pipe characters, such as ``|has two spaces|``.

* ``||`` is the empty symbol, the symbol whose name is the empty string.

* All the C-style escapes are supported, as with strings.

* You cannot escape a quote &mdash; there is no need to &mdash; but you can escape a pipe with ``\|`` or a backslash
with ``\\``.

* Hexadecimal and Unicode escapes are supported, as with strings.

* You can escape a newline just like in a string.

The data model also supports *uninterned symbols.* When an uninterned symbol is generated, it is guaranteed to be
distinct from any other symbol (interned or uninterned). Once generated, an uninterned symbol can be *used* any number
of times, and is always recognized as being equal to itself.

An uninterned symbol does not have a printed representation, but it can be serialized in binary. When a ``Datum`` is
serialized to binary, the number of distinct uninterned symbols is counted, and when the ``Datum`` is deserialized,
the same number of new uninterned symbols is generated. The new symbols correspond one-for-one with the old ones.

## Integer

Integers are arbitrary-precision. Right now only base 10 is supported. Examples of integers include ``-100``, ``0``,
and ``64``.

## Rational

Rational numbers are supported. Examples include ``-1/2`` and ``1/3``. Upon being read, a rational number is converted
to lowest terms.

## Floating-Point

Floating-point numbers are supported. A floating-point number must distinguish itself from an integer by having a
decimal point or an ``E`` (or an ``e``), or both. Examples of floating-point numbers include ``-1.23`` and
``6.02e23``.

The data model supports infinite and NaN values, but there is currently no way to write them (except in binary).

## GUID

Globally-unique identifiers (GUIDs) are supported as a distinct data type. A GUID must have 32 hex digits, with
hyphens in particular places. A GUID always starts with ``#g{`` and ends with ``}``. An example of a GUID is
``#g{01234567-89AB-CDEF-0123-456789ABCDEF}``. The hex digits are case-insensitive.

## Byte Array

A byte array is written as ``#y(``, followed by a sequence of hexadecimal bytes, followed by ``)``. Each hexadecimal
byte must consist of exactly two hex digits. Hex digits are case-insensitive. Whitespace is allowed (but not required)
between bytes.

As a convenience, it is also possible to put bytes in square brackets; this causes the order of the bytes in the
brackets to be reversed, and is useful when embedding little-endian multi-byte integers in the byte array. Square
brackets may *not* be nested.

An example of a byte array is ``#y(F4 2C 53 0f [3000])``. This is equivalent to ``#y([0F53 2CF4] 00 30)``.

## Atomic vs. Compound Types

All the above are *atomic* data types, meaning that they do not contain unrestricted ``Datum`` values as elements. The
*compound* types include lists, sets, and dictionaries, and they *do* allow unrestricted ``Datum`` values as
elements. Compound types can include other compound types as elements.

Unlike Common Lisp, the empty list, the empty set, and the empty dictionary are all considered distinct from ``#nil``,
from the symbol ``nil``, and from each other.

## List

A list is written as ``(``, followed by zero or more ``Datum`` values, followed by ``)``.

A list is considered to be a sequence of zero or more elements. "Dotted lists" in the style of Lisp and Scheme are not
supported. These lists might be more analogous to the *vectors* in Lisp or Scheme.

## Set

A set is written as ``#s{``, followed by zero or more ``Datum`` values, followed by ``}``.

Duplicate items in a set are ignored. The data model does not allow them.

## Dictionary

A dictionary is written as ``{``, followed by zero or more key-value pairs, followed by ``}``. A key-value pair is a
``Datum`` key, followed by ``:``, followed by a ``Datum`` value, followed by ``,``. The trailing comma may be omitted
from the last key-value pair.

(Note, this has changed from the 1.0 version where the separator between keys and values was ``=>`` instead of ``:``.)

The data model allows only one value per key. If a duplicate key is found when parsing input, the behavior is
implementation-defined, but must be either that one of the duplicate key-value pairs is chosen arbitrarily for
inclusion in the dictionary and the others are ignored, or that an error is signaled.

## Mutable Box

A mutable box must have either a *key* or a *value*, and may have both. The key is an integer which fits in 32
bits. Mutable boxes with the same key are considered the same. The value is any ``Datum`` and may include other
mutable boxes, or the same mutable box. Every mutable box must be assigned a value exactly once.

A mutable box with a key and a value is written as ``#b[`` (key) ``]=`` (value). A mutable box with only a value is
written as ``#b=`` (value).  A mutable box with only a key is written as ``#b[`` (key) ``]``.

As with uninterned symbols, when mutable boxes are deserialized, new mutable boxes with new identities are created,
but they match one-for-one with the old mutable boxes.

## Comments

Comments are now supported in data-as-text. These do not show up in the data model at all. A comment is allowed
anywhere that insignificant whitespace is allowed.

Like with Scheme and Lisp, a comment begins with ``;`` and continues to the end of the line.

There is currently no form of multi-line comment.
